{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1\deff0\stshfdbch0\stshfloch0\stshfhich0\stshfbi0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f37\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}
{\f38\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}{\f40\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f41\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f42\froman\fcharset177\fprq2 Times New Roman (Hebrew);}
{\f43\froman\fcharset178\fprq2 Times New Roman (Arabic);}{\f44\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}{\f45\froman\fcharset163\fprq2 Times New Roman (Vietnamese);}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \snext0 Normal;}{\s1\ql \li0\ri0\sb360\sl288\slmult1
\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel0\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs36\lang3081\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp3081\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 1;}{
\s2\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs28\lang3081\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp3081\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 2;}{
\s3\ql \li0\ri0\sb120\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel2\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs24\lang3081\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp3081\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext0 heading 3;}{\*\cs10 \additive \ssemihidden Default Paragraph Font;}
{\*\ts11\tsrowd\trftsWidthB3\trpaddl108\trpaddr108\trpaddfl3\trpaddft3\trpaddfb3\trpaddfr3\trcbpat1\trcfpat1\tscellwidthfts0\tsvertalt\tsbrdrt\tsbrdrl\tsbrdrb\tsbrdrr\tsbrdrdgl\tsbrdrdgr\tsbrdrh\tsbrdrv 
\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \fs20\lang1024\langfe1024\cgrid\langnp1024\langfenp1024 \snext11 \ssemihidden Normal Table;}{\s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 \sbasedon0 \snext15 Body Text;}}{\*\latentstyles\lsdstimax156\lsdlockeddef0}{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid-1997927736{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0
\levelstartat3\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li360\jclisttab\tx360\lin360 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext
\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1080\jclisttab\tx1080\lin1080 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-180\li1800
\jclisttab\tx1800\lin1800 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2520\jclisttab\tx2520\lin2520 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0
\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li3240\jclisttab\tx3240\lin3240 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-180\li3960\jclisttab\tx3960\lin3960 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li4680
\jclisttab\tx4680\lin4680 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li5400\jclisttab\tx5400\lin5400 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2
\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'08.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-180\li6120\jclisttab\tx6120\lin6120 }{\listname ;}\listid3214037}{\list\listtemplateid-624673056{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0
\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace357\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li717\jclisttab\tx717\lin717 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace0\levelindent0
{\leveltext\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fbias0 \fi-360\li1440\jclisttab\tx1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace357\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-180\li2160
\jclisttab\tx2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace357\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2880\jclisttab\tx2880\lin2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4
\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace357\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li3600\jclisttab\tx3600\lin3600 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace357
\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-180\li4320\jclisttab\tx4320\lin4320 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace357\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}
\fi-360\li5040\jclisttab\tx5040\lin5040 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace357\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li5760\jclisttab\tx5760\lin5760 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2
\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace357\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'08.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-180\li6480\jclisttab\tx6480\lin6480 }{\listname ;}\listid235867002}{\list\listtemplateid-842232370\listhybrid{\listlevel
\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li717\jclisttab\tx717\lin717 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'01.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li1437\jclisttab\tx1437\lin1437 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'02.;}{\levelnumbers
\'01;}\fi-180\li2157\jclisttab\tx2157\lin2157 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'03.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li2877\jclisttab\tx2877\lin2877 }{\listlevel
\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'04.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li3597\jclisttab\tx3597\lin3597 }{\listlevel\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1
\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'05.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-180\li4317\jclisttab\tx4317\lin4317 }{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'06.;}{\levelnumbers
\'01;}\fi-360\li5037\jclisttab\tx5037\lin5037 }{\listlevel\levelnfc4\levelnfcn4\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'07.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li5757\jclisttab\tx5757\lin5757 }{\listlevel
\levelnfc2\levelnfcn2\leveljc2\leveljcn2\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\leveltext\'02\'08.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-180\li6477\jclisttab\tx6477\lin6477 }{\listname ;}\listid1428698931}}{\*\listoverridetable
{\listoverride\listid235867002\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid3214037\listoverridecount1{\lfolevel}\ls2}{\listoverride\listid1428698931\listoverridecount0\ls3}}{\*\rsidtbl \rsid4013624\rsid9461248\rsid11078564\rsid12792937\rsid14231995}
{\*\generator Microsoft Word 11.0.6113;}{\info{\title Synodical Hymnody Committee}{\author JR}{\operator Berwyn Hoyt}{\creatim\yr2005\mo9\dy24\hr14\min57}{\revtim\yr2005\mo9\dy24\hr14\min58}{\version3}{\edmins1}{\nofpages3}{\nofwords965}{\nofchars5503}
{\*\company URBANINITIATIVES}{\nofcharsws6456}{\vern24699}}\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\noxlattoyen\expshrtn\noultrlspc\dntblnsbdb\nospaceforul\hyphcaps0\formshade\horzdoc\dgmargin\dghspace180\dgvspace180\dghorigin1800\dgvorigin1440\dghshow1\dgvshow1
\jexpand\viewkind1\viewscale100\pgbrdrhead\pgbrdrfoot\splytwnine\ftnlytwnine\htmautsp\nolnhtadjtbl\useltbaln\alntblind\lytcalctblwd\lyttblrtgr\lnbrkrule\nojkernpunct\rsidroot11078564 \fet0\sectd \linex0\endnhere\sectlinegrid360\sectdefaultcl\sftnbj 
{\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8
\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang {\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 
\b\fs28\lang3081\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp3081\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12792937 Statement of Principle
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li567\ri566\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin566\lin567\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\i0\insrsid12792937 
The music of the church should be appropriate for worship - that is, it should be liturgical and have aesthetic integrity. The music of worship should serve the dialogue between God 
and his people. It must be true to the full message of the Scriptures and reflective of biblical Christian experience. Along with the biblical motif, the music of worship should give expression to the other motifs of liturgy: the catholic, the confessiona
l
, and the pastoral. The music of worship should satisfy the aesthetic laws that are conditions of good art, such as imaginative craftsmanship and seriousness of expression. It should reflect the church at worship today and throughout the ages in ways that
 are relevant, enduring, festive, and dignified
\par {\listtext\tab}}\pard\plain \s2\ql \li0\ri0\sb240\sa120\keepn\widctlpar\jclisttab\tx360\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\ls9\outlinelevel1\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \b\fs28\lang3081\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp3081\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12792937 Interpretation
\par }\pard\plain \s15\ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 \i\fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12792937 
The four liturgical motifs listed in the Statement of Principle - the biblical, the catholic, the confessional, and the pastoral - are present in all worship and ought to complement one another
. They may not be equally obvious in every service, but they should all be appropriately represented in the flow of worship services throughout the year.
\par 
\par }{\b\i0\insrsid12792937 The music of the church should be biblical}{\i0\insrsid12792937 .  }{\insrsid12792937 Text and tunes must serve worship in ways true to biblic
al patterns for liturgy and must be faithful to the full range of the revelation of God in Scripture. Psalms and Bible songs must be faithful to the original meaning and context of the Scripture passage. Hymn texts are to be true to the teachings of Scrip
ture.
\par Furthermore, our music should be }{\i0\insrsid12792937 \'93reflective of biblical Christian experience\'94}{\insrsid12792937 
.  It will manifest, therefore, a spirituality that centres upon God and His works. Our experience of Him is secondary to this, even as it is in the Psalms. This statement deals with a perceived weakness of our age, albeit by negation; our hymnody must av
oid the fads and the spirit of our age. Nevertheless, our hymnody must reflect (in its turns of phrase at least) our particular time in history.
\par 
\par Our Church Order requires the singing of Psalms in worship. We have been blessed with a love for them and wish to foster that tradition. The book of Psalms is God\rquote s gift of song to the Church. Although most of today\rquote 
s poets would probably write fewer laments and more songs of praise than the Psalmist did, every Psalm has meaning for Christians in some time or place
. For the sake of those suffering persecution for Christ; and on behalf of those being led astray by false shepherds, even in the present day, we will continue to sing the imprecatory Psalms:  weeping with those who weep; praying even as we sing them, not
 only that Christ\rquote s confirmed enemies be punished, strongholds be broken down, and God\rquote s Kingdom come, but also that we might be spared the conditions that provoke such anguished prayer.
\par 
\par The Bible-song section expands the singing of Scripture to include other Bible songs and other sections of Scripture that are appropriate for song.
\par 
\par In choosing the hymns, we have sought to maintain the same balance of the biblical Christian experience that we find in the Psalms, and the reflections and expressions of New Testament believers on the majesty and goodness of God and his grace in Christ.

\par }{\i0\insrsid12792937 The music of the church should be catholic.  }{\insrsid12792937 Our music should express not only the unity of a single denomination or congregation but also the unity of the
 Church throughout the world and from all ages. We rejoice in the communion of the saints when we sing ancient prayers and songs from a variety of Christian communities, cultures and traditions that make up the body of Christ. In addition, because we wors
h
ip together as families, the music of the church ought to include some songs that our little ones can sing and understand. To meet these many different needs, our hymnody should contain a variety of styles and contributions from various cultures and eras,
 bearing in mind, however, that singing with cultural integrity is also part of worshipping \'93in truth\'94.
\par }{\i0\insrsid12792937 
\par }{\b\i0\insrsid12792937 The music of the church should be confessional}{\i0\insrsid12792937 .  }{\insrsid12792937 While we recognise that the Lord has His people in many places, nevertheless we humbly confess that the
 system of understanding Christianity known as the Reformed faith is simply the faith of the Bible. To worship in truth, therefore, our music must reflect our confessional and doctrinal understanding of Scripture, with its emphasis on the communal rather 
than on the individualistic. Hence our songs deal with topics like the covenant and baptism, God\rquote 
s sovereignty and election and providence. That does not mean that every aspect of a given teaching must be present in every song on that subject. A song is a s
ong, not a systematic theology. A text is not to be judged by what it fails to say, unless in its failure a false impression is conveyed.
\par 
\par }{\b\i0\insrsid12792937 The music of the church should be pastoral}{\i0\insrsid12792937 .}{\insrsid12792937   Each part of the body of Christ worships in a particular time and place 
and has a unique set of needs. Each church needs to identify with an already familiar body of songs and singing this collection of songs contributes to the unity of the churches. The words of these songs must be written in language that is understandable 
to the congregation and set to singable melodies.  In this way we can fulfil the exhortation of the apostle Paul who wrote; \'93
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly as you teach and admonish one another with psalms, hymns and spiritual songs with gratitude in your hearts to God.\'94 (Col. 3:16).
\par 
\par }{\b\i0\insrsid12792937 The music of the Church should be beautiful}{\i0\insrsid12792937 .}{\insrsid12792937 
 Its poetry should have aesthetic integrity in itself, not relying on the music to carry it; its music likewise having aesthetic integrity in itself, not relying on the po
etry to carry it. And the two should complement each other, the resultant whole satisfying the laws of balance, unity, variety, harmony, design, rhythm, restraint and fitness.
\par 
\par In all these ways the music of the church serves the dialogue between God and His people, containing God\rquote s Word to us and our response to Him. The Church\rquote s music also provides a way for us to address others. Since God\rquote 
s people are His ambassadors to the whole world, the Church\rquote s songs must witness to God\rquote s wondrous acts of saving love and must call all people and nations to honour and obey the King of kings and Lord of lords. 
\par So shall we all, in the Spirit, in truth, in holiness and in beauty, join the eternal song:
\par }\pard\plain \ql \li1134\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin1134\itap0 \fs24\lang1033\langfe1033\cgrid\langnp1033\langfenp1033 {\insrsid12792937 \tab 
\par }\pard \ql \li567\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin567\itap0 {\insrsid12792937 \tab \'93To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb
\par \tab be praise and honour and glory and power
\par \tab for ever and ever!\'94 (Rev. 5:13).
\par }\pard \ql \li0\ri0\widctlpar\aspalpha\aspnum\faauto\adjustright\rin0\lin0\itap0 {\insrsid12792937 
\par }}